1. Good morning

To begin, I want to thank my supervisor, professor Nasta, for all the support and guidance I was lucky enough to receive since I met him. 

To continue, I will now present my research.

2. I will begin by explaining why I decided to dedicate my effort to my research question and what my purpose was, continuing with the methodology applied. I will briefly present the underlying concepts before showing my results, and finally the conclusions.

3. I began this work fascinated by business model innovation theory and curious about sustainable business model innovation, hence I started digging deep into related literature. Some important gaps were identified by other scholars, such as the lack of differentiation of SBMI components compared to its relatives, the lack of clarity among related concepts, and finally, identified by myself, I noticed how "sustainable" is misused in such a way that basicially means nothing being comletely up to interpretation. 

4. Accordingly, I wanted to give my contribution to SBMI's components, since we were wondering whether it is done for compliance or not, so distinguishing between BM "adaptation" and "innovation", I waned to understand what is the strict logic relation among BM, BMI and so on, and finally I wanted to understand what sustainability really means now that it includes ESG aspects in addition to the classic strategic meaning
5. it follows that these are the research question, exactly mirroring my purpose

6. Since I was after qualitative knowlege, the approriate strategy is indeed qualitative. Moreover, I based my work on assumption like interpretative epistemology, which presupposes that without seeing a social reality through its social actors eyes a theory is doomed to mismatch reality, constructionism, which holds the belief that a social reality is actually made its social actors understanding of it and dialectical shuttling which the process of mixing iteration and abducation, or going back and forth from literature to empirical findings. This idea made me select semi-structured interviews, to allow for unexpected findings and grounded theory data analysis, to capture max value and collect data as omnicomprehensive as possible

7. Here you can see my coding process and the article selection of my litrev

8. About the sampling, I interviewed founders of companies born sustainable such as CAKE and Plantagon, plantagon actually did SBMI innovatinve on the social sustainbility side, I interviewed practitioners directly involved with the procss from Ericsson, Enel, and practitioners influenced by it from Volvo, Azimut and people helping clients with SBMI from Baker Hughes and the Head of Sustainability advisorsy from BDO Sverige.

9. to give some hint about literature, a business model is the underlying logic of how a company organizez to profit, its compoents are based on value

10. Its innovation is not pacific, or better, what qualify as such is not clear, for some scholars interprest is as change, other requires a complete reinvention of it

11. beginning with the results, sustainbility is something that emerged storngly from interviewee, the need of understanding what we are talking about is strongly felt by professionals.

 Sustainability is about the balance of every aspects it can cover, which in the end is strategic in the sense that it makes an organization lasts and thrive over time, according to the literal meaning of sustaianability, which means that the balance of economic, social, environmental, financial, stratetic sustainability in the end means that a company thrives over time,a concept similar to resilience

12.
However, sustainability is defined over time by both technologies and values. Technologies is well explained by Ytterborn, in the quote on the right, but values was stressed by all interviewees. Hans Hassle highlithed how important it is on an ethical level, but the general understanding is that such things come from society as a whole, and the value defining sustainability are dictated by societal culture over time.

13. On a smaller scale, sustainability ususally permeates a business only when it is part of culture, thus affecting all the other component, just like a cascade, because there is not partial sustainability, sustainability has no compromise

14. According practitioners, the conceptualization of BM does not apply to real life, for BM are shaped with everyday activites. Companies always strive to do better and accomplishing new goal, or simply as soon as they have revenues they start new projects

15 this everyday process influencing a reshaping a business model is interpretaed as business model innovation, or better it is like capturing the variation in a business model, or causing it tending to specific finality

16. However, BMI can have effect on a BM to different extents. Marco Moretti draw a line to defining a new business model according disruptive innovation idea, sayign that a new business model opens or creates new markets, and it is not necessarely sustainable, however BMI can change a BM while not creating an entirely new one

17. here you can see consistency with both exisitng research stream, and a fairly new conceptualization of SBMI to SBM

18. SBMI is regarded as an hygienic competitive requirements, and yes, its drivers may be commitment or compliance, but according practitioners it does not make a difference in the process itself, although results arent

19. Speciale said it is BaU in autmotive, and there is an example of Hakansson showing how the process is the same, but the results change and exaplaing how nowdays sustainability is part of strategy

20.
To conclude, I propose a new theoretical framework able to pacify BMI literature including both research stream under a common theoretical framework, since conflict arose due to the fact that both research stream are correct, studying a specific configruation of BMI, 

the idea is that BM is a static picture of a BM, capturing it in a specific point in time, while BMI is the variation force, capturing a BM variation in two points in time

21. However, BMI is not differentiated by its drivers, but by its goal

22. in this work SBMI has been studied and identified as BMI for S, eventually resulting in a SBM

23. SBM and SBMI are specific confiurations of BM and SBMI, with BMI being the generic change force changing a generic BM

24. SBM status is achieved only when every component of a BM is sustainable has previously defined


